.TH comp41 1 13-April-2018 "LIF Utilitites" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
comp41 \- a filter to compile a HP41C user\-language (FOCAL) program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comp41
[\-a][\-g] [\-l] [\-x
.I xrom_file
] [\-x
.I xrom_file
] ...
.I
<input file>
.PP
.B comp41
[\-g] [\-l] [\-x
.I xrom_file
] [\-x
.I xrom_file
] ...
.PP
(last form reads source file from standard input)
.PP
.B comp41 \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B comp41
is a filter which compiles a text file containing a HP-41 user program (FOCAL)
and translates it to a LIF or binary raw file (default). 
.PP
A 
.I xrom_file
consists of a number of lines, each consisting of 2 decimal numbers and one or two
strings (containing no whitespace), in that order, separated by whitespace. 
The first string gives a name to the function specified by the first number as 
.I rr
and the second number as
.I nn.
The optional second string is the function name containing the Unicode characters listed above, which
must not be used in the first string.
The proper
.I xrom_file
is necessary to compile commands of module or peripheral functions.
.SH INPUT FILE FORMAT
Prefixes are case-insensitive:  'rcl 00'  same as  'RCL 00'.
.PP
Postfixes are case-sensitive:  'lbl a'  different than 'lbl A'.
.PP
Append text is allowed using:  '>"text"' , ' "|-text" ', or '"\\-text"'.
.PP
Double quote in text must be escaped by  '\\' (incompatibility to hp41uc).
.PP
The following Unicode characters are translated to the HP-41 FOCAL character set: text append (hex 0x251c), 
greek small mu (hex 0x03bc), angle (hex 0x2280), not equal to (hex 0x2260), greek capital sigma (hex 0x03A3).
and may be used in text and instructions.
.PP
Synthetic instructions are allowed: 'rcl M', 'sto R'
.PP
Synthetic NOP (TEXT0) is allowed using an empty string: '""'
.PP
Synthetic strings are allowed using C-style esc-sequences: '"\\x0D\\x0A"'
.PP
Comments are allowed if preceded by ';' or '#' : '# comment'
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-g
Force global for "A..J", "a..e"  with quotes:  lbl "A" 
.TP
.I \-l
Skip line numbers
.TP
.I \-f LIF Filename
Create a LIF file instead of a raw file on standard output. A valid lif file name must be provided, which must apply the rules of HP-71 file names: capital letters and digits, starting with a capital letter.
.TP
.I \-x xrom_file
Use
.I xrom_file
to define names for functions in plug-in modules. This option may be 
repeated to load multiple
.I xrom_files.
The file name has to be specified either as a full pathname or as
the filename without the extension .xrom in the default location
that is specified with the environment variable LIFUTILSXROMDIR (see below).
.TP
.I \-s
Output source listing to standard error
.TP
.I \-h
Output byte code to standard error, requires \-s.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I xroms/*
xrom function definition files. Use the environment variable LIFUTILSXROMDIR to point to the location of this
directory. On Linux the default location is /usr/share/lifutils/xroms, if the variable is not specified.
.SH REFERENCES
The format of an HP41C program is documented in many books. Amongst the 
most useful references are
.I Extend Your HP41 (W. A. C. Mier-Jedrzejowicz)
and
.I The HP41 Synthetic Programming Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I prog1.txt
is a text file with a FOCAL program that uses functions of the HP-IL and time module and
.I
hp41prog.dat
is a LIF image file
then
.PP
.B cat prog1.txt | comp41 \-x hpil \-x time \-f PROG1 | lifput hp41prog.dat 
.PP 
will compile the file
.I prog1.txt
to a LIF file named
.I PROG1
that is stored in the LIF image file
.I hp41prog.dat
.SH BUGS
Unknown.
.SH AUTHOR
.B comp41
was written using code of the User-Code File Converter/Compiler/De-compiler/Bar-Code Generator  Version 1.31
Copyright (c) Leo Duran, 2000-2023 and has been placed under the GNU Public License version 2.0
