.TH decomp41 1 01-November-2024 "LIF Utilitites" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
decomp41 \- decompile a HP-41 program file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils decomp41
[\-h][\-a] [\-l] [\-r] [\-x
.I XROMFILE
] ...  
.I INPUTFILE 
[> 
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils decomp41
[\-h][\-a] [\-l] [\-r] [\-x
.I XROMFILE
] ... < 
.I Input file 
[> 
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils decomp41 \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B decomp41
produces a listing of an HP-41 FOCAL bytecode program. 
It reads the program as a series of bytes from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE
and prints the listing to standard output (in a similar format to the standard HP-41 
printer).
.PP
By default, functions contained in plug-in modules are displayed as 
.I XROM rr,nn
where 
.I rr
is the number of the plug-in ROM and 
.I nn
is the number of the function within that ROM. This can be overridden by 
loading 
.I XROMFILEs,
see the 
.I \-x
option below. An 
.I XROMFILE
consists of a number of lines, each consisting of 2 decimal numbers and one or two
strings (containing no whitespace), in that order, separated by whitespace. 
The first string gives a name to the function specified by the first number as 
.I rr
and the second number as
.I nn.
The optional second string is the function name containing Unicode characters, which must not be 
used in the first string. See the
.I \-a
option below.
.PP
The Linux command 
.B pr
may be useful for formatting the output of 
.B decomp41
into multiple columns.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-h
Display the bytes (in hexadecimal) that make up each program instruction 
immediately preceding the display of that instruction
.TP
.I \-l
Enable line numbers
.TP
.I \-a
Decompile the following non ASCII HP-41 FOCAL characters as Unicode characters: text append (hex 0x251c),
greek small mu (hex 0x03bc), angle (hex 0x2280), not equal to (hex 0x2260), greek capital sigma (hex 0x03A3).
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-x XROMFILE
Use
.I XROMFILE
to define names for functions in plug-in modules. This option may be repeated to load multiple
.I XROMFILEs.
The file name has to be specified either as a full pathname or as the filename without the extension .xrom 
in the default location that is specified with the environment variable LIFUTILSXROMDIR (see below).
There is a special 
.I XROMFILE hpdevices.xrom
that contains all definitions for the standard HP peripheral ROM functions.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I xroms/*
xrom function definition files. Use the environment variable LIFUTILSXROMDIR to point to the location of this
directory. On Linux the default location is /usr/share/lifutils/xroms, if the variable is not specified.
.SH REFERENCES
The format of an HP-41 program is documented in many books. Amongst the 
most useful references are
.I Extend Your HP41 (W. A. C. Mier-Jedrzejowicz)
and
.I The HP41 Synthetic Programming Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image containing an HP41 program called
.I PROG
then
.PP
.B lifutils lifget -r  disk1.dat PROG | lifutils decomp41 \-x hpil.xrom  \-x time.xrom
.PP 
will produce a listing of the program to standard output, with the 
standard names for the functions in the HPIL module and time module.
.SH BUGS
Some synthetic functions may not be displayed correctly, although an 
attempt has been made to handle synthetic programming. Some common HP41C 
characters are not printable in ASCII (and are displayed as \\nnn octal 
display sequences) so the display of strings in programs may be somewhat 
messy.
.SH AUTHOR
.B decomp41
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
