.TH er41rom 1 03-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
er41rom \- unscramble an Eramco ROM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils er41rom 
[\-r]
.I INPUTFILE
> 
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils er41rom 
[\-r]
<
.I Input file
> 
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils er41rom \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Eramco MLDL-OS ROM set can save HP41 ROM images to disk, and the 
file format used has become a de facto standard for such images. It stores 4 
10 bit HP41 words in 5 bytes of the file. A 4K ROM dump is thus stored in
a 5120 byte file.
.PP
.B er41rom
unscrambles such a raw or LIF rom file, storing each HP41 10 bit word in 2 bytes of 
the output file, and therefore a 4K image takes up 8192 bytes when 
unscrambled. The resulting output file, although larger, is easier to 
process with other programs.
.PP
The input is either read from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I myrom.xm41
is an HP41 rom image, produced by the Eramco MLDL-OS and stored in a 
file, then
.PP
.B lifutils er41rom < myrom.xm41 > myrom.rom
.PP 
will unscramble the image and store the result in 
.I myrom.rom
.SH SEE ALSO
.B rom41cat(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B er41rom
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
