.TH key41 1 13-April-2018 "LIF Utilitites" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
key41 \- a filter to list an HP-41 key assignment file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B key41
[\-h] [\-x
.I xrom_file
] [\-x
.I xrom_file
] ...
.B <
.I Input file
.B >
.I Output file
.PP
.B key41 
\-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B key41
is a filter which produces a listing of an HP-41 key assignment file. The
key definitions are read from standard input, and a human-readable listing
is produced on standard output. 
.PP 
In general, assignments are displayed based on how they behave when 
stored in the HP-41 program memory (and to a lesser extent when they are 
executed in RUN mode), rather than how they are previewed on the HP-41 
display. 
.PP
By default, functions contained in plug-in modules are displayed as 
.I XROM rr,nn
where 
.I rr
is the number of the plug-in ROM and 
.I nn
is the number of the function within that ROM. This can be overridden by 
loading 
.I xrom_files,
see the 
.I \-x
option below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-h
Display the bytes (in hexadecimal) that comprise the key definition, 
rather than attempting to decode it.
.TP
.I \-x xrom_file
Use
.I xrom_file
to define names for functions in plug-in modules. This option may be 
repeated to load multiple
.I xrom_files.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I xroms/*
xrom function definition files. The format of these files is given in the
prog41(1) manpage. Use  the  environment  variable
LIFUTILSXROMDIR  to point to the location of this directory. On
Linux the default location is /usr/share/lifutils/xroms, if the
variable is not specified.
.SH REFERENCES
The format of an HP41C key assignment register is documented in many books. 
Amongst the most useful references are
.I Extend Your HP41 (W. A. C. Mier-Jedrzejowicz)
and
.I The HP41 Synthetic Programming Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF disk image containing an HP41 key assignment file called
.I KEYS
then
.PP
.B lifget \-r disk1.dat KEYS | key41 \-x hpil  \-x time 
.PP 
will produce a listing of the keys to standard output, with the 
standard names for the functions in the HPIL module and time module.
.SH BUGS
Some of the more exotic synthetic assignments may not be displayed 
correctly, although an attempt has been made to handle synthetic programming. 
The common synthetic assignments, such as 2-byte standard functions, byte 
grabbers and 
.I eG0BEEP
should be correctly displayed. If in doubt, use the 
.I \-h
option to display the assignments in hexadecimal.
.SH AUTHOR
.B key41
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
