.TH lifdir 1 11-June-2000 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifdir \- print a directory of a LIF image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifdir [\-n]
.I <LIF image file>
.PP
.B lifdir \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifdir
reads the directory of a LIF image file and prints 
this directory to standard output.
.PP
If the volume label is non\-blank, then this is printed first, followed 
by the date of formatting if this is valid. Each subsequent line contains 
the details of a single file, consisting of the file name, file type (see 
the 
.B FILE TYPE
section below), the number of bytes in the file and the total number of 
bytes occupied by the blocks of that file, and finally the file time and 
date stamp if this is valid.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-n
Print file names only
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH FILE TYPES
The following file types are recognised by this version of 
.B lifdir
.TP
.I TEXT
A HP Text file (or LIF1 format file).
.TP
.I SDATA
A HP71B SDATA file or HP41C data file.
.TP
.I DATA71
A HP71B data file.
.TP
.I BIN71
A HP71B binary program file.
.TP
.I LEX71
A HP71B language extension file.
.TP
.I KEY71
A HP71B keyboard definition file.
.TP
.I BASIC71
A HP71B tokenised BASIC program.
.TP
.I FORTH71
A HP71B forth dictionary file.
.TP
.I WALL41
A HP41C Write-All file.
.TP
.I KEY41
A HP41C key assignment file.
.TP
.I STAT41
A HP41C status file.
.TP
.I PROG41
A HP41C program.
.TP
.I TEXT75
A HP75 text file.
.TP
.I APPT75
A HP75 appointments file.
.TP
.I LEX75
A HP75 language extension file.
.TP
.I BASIC75
A HP75 tokenised BASIC program.
.TP
.I VCALC75
A HP75 Visicalc worksheet
.PP
Unknown file types are printed as a 4\-digit hex number giving the value 
of the 2 file type bytes from the directory. See
.B lif_dir_utils.c
for details of the file types.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I disk1.lif
is a LIF disk image file then
.PP
.B lifdir  disk1.lif
.PP
will print a directory listing of that image file.
.SH REFERENCES
The LIF disk directory format is documented in the
.I HP\-IL Interface Owners Manual for the HP\-71 (Hewlett\-Packard)
with further details (particularly HP41 and HP75 file types) in the 
.I HP\-41 Synthetic Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH BUGS
Not all file types have been tested.
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifdir
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
