.TH lifget 1 15-March-2018 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifget \- extract a file from a LIF image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifget 
[\-r] [\-b] [\-l] [\-p]
.I <LIF image file> <filename> <output file>
.PP
.B lifget 
[\-r] [\-b] [\-l] [\-p]
.I <LIF image file> <filename>
.PP
(last form send the extracted file to standard output)
.PP
.B lifget \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifget
extracts a single file, specified by 
.I filename
from a LIF image file.
.I filename
is case\-sensitive and must be given in upper case. If 
.B lifget
is executed with 3 arguments after the options then the third argument is 
used as the name of the file that the LIF file is copied to. If 
only 2 arguments are given then the file is copied to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-r
Remove the  32\-byte header consisting of the directory 
record from the LIF disk directory from the beginning of the output file.
.TP
.I \-b
Copy the blocks occupied by the file (including the entire last block) 
rather then the number of bytes given by the file length. This option has 
no meaning for file types where the file is always assumed to occupy 
complete blocks.
.TP
.I \-l
Relax file name checking, allow underscores in filenames.
.TP
.I \-p
Read file from a floppy disk with a LIF file system. Note: this option is only supported on LINUX. Specify the floppy device instead of the lif-image-filename. See the LIFUTILS tutorial for details.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image file containing a HP-41 SDATA file called 
.I TEST1
then 
.PP
.B lifget disk1.dat TEST1 lif_test_file.d41
.PP
will copy the file TEST1 from the LIF disk image to the LIF file
.I lif_test_file.d41.
.SH REFERENCES
The LIF disk directory format is documented in the
.I HP\-IL Interface Owners Manual for the HP\-71 (Hewlett\-Packard)
with further details (particularly HP41 and HP75 file types) in the 
.I HP\-41 Synthetic Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH BUGS
Not all file types have been tested.
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifget
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
