.TH lifinit 1 03-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifinit \- initialize a lif disk image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils ifinit 
[\-z] 
\-m 
.I MEDIUMTYPE
[-p]
.I LIFIMAGE DIRECTORYSIZE
.PP
.B lifutils ifinit \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifinit
initializes the LIF image file specified by
.I LIFIMAGE
with
.I DIRECTORYSIZE
directory entries.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-m
This mandatory option 
.I MEDIUMTYPE
specifies the medium type. The following medium types are supported:
.RS
cass:    Initializes a medium with the size of a HP82161A cassette
.RE
.RS
disk:    Initializes a medium with the size of a HP9114B double sided disk
.RE
.RS
hdrive1: Initializes a medium with the size of a 640 KB disk
.RE
.RS
hdrive2: Initializes a medium with the size of a 2 MB disk
.RE
.RS
hdrive4: Initializes a medium with the size of a 4 MB disk
.RE
.RS
hdrive8: Initializes a medium with the size of a 8 MB disk
.RE
.RS
hdrive16: Initializes a medium with the size of a 16 MB disk
.RE
.TP
.I \-z
Initialize the data area of the image with zeros.
.TP
.I \-p
Initialize a LIF file system on a floppy disk. Note: this option is only supported on LINUX. Specify the floppy device instead of the lif-image-filename. See the LIFUTILS tutorial for details.
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I disk1.dat
shall be created as LIF image file then
.PP
.B lifutils lifinit -m disk disk1.dat 160
.PP
will create the lif disk image file
.I disk1.dat
with a directory size of 
.I 160 
entries. The command creates the disk header and an empty directory. The
header is initialized with the parameters of the HP9114B double sided disk
medium.
.SH REFERENCES
The LIF disk format is documented in the
.I HP\-IL Interface Owners Manual for the HP\-71 (Hewlett\-Packard)
with further details (particularly HP41 and HP75 file types) in the 
.I HP\-41 Synthetic Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifinit
was written by Joachim Siebold, bug400@gmx.de  using code from Tony Duell, 
ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed under the GNU Public 
License version 2.0
