.TH lifmod 1 14-April-2018 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifmod \- reads contents and info of HP-41 module files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifmod
[\-v] [\-f] [\-e] [\-l] 
.I <Module file>
.PP
.B lifmod \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifmod
displays and/or extracts information of a 
.I module file.
A module file has a special binary format defined for the HP-41  which
is inspired how actual plug in modules look like. A mod file describes the 
contents of a physical plug in module. Like real plug in modules, module files
can contain multiple 4K rom pages.
.PP
Without any options specified, lifmod displays the title and the author of
the module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-v
Verbose mode. Display detailed information of the content and organisation
of the module.
.TP
.I \-f
Decode the function address table (if any) of the rom(s) contained in the module
files. Implies the 
.I \-f 
option.
.TP
.I \-e
Extract the rom images (if any) of the modules as .rom files. Note: the
page name of the image is used as the file name. Characters which are
not allowed in file names are converted to underscores.
.TP
.I \-l
If specified in addition to the 
.I \-e
option  dump(s) of the rom image(s) are created as .lst files for usage with
the NSIM program.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I ADVANTAGE.MOD
is a module file of the HP-41 Advantage Pac then
.PP
.B lifmod -e ADVANTAGE.MOD
.PP
will print detailed information of the content of the module and
extract the three rom images of the module to corresponding .rom files.
.SH REFERENCES
Some information can be found in the comments of the modfile.c source file
(see below).
.SH BUGS
Unknown
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifmod
was nearly entirely created with the help of the modfile.c subroutines 
written by Warren Furlow, warren@furlow.org as public domain software.
