.TH lifput 1 04-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifput \- put a LIF file into a LIF image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils lifput 
[\-l]
[\-p]
.I LIFIMAGE LIFFILENAME
.PP
.B lifput 
[\-l]
[\-p]
.I LIFIMAGE
<
.I LIFFILENAME
.PP
.B lifput \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifput
put a single LIF file, specified by 
.I LIFFILENAME
into the LIF image file
.I LIFIMAGE.
.PP
.I LIFFILENAME
must have a valid LIF header. If 
.B lifput
is executed with 2 arguments after the options then the last argument is 
used as the name of the file that is copied into the LIF image 
file. If only 1 arguments are given then the file is copied from standard
input.
.PP
.B
Note:
The import of the LIF file into the LIF image file will only be successful if:
.IP \-
LIF file has a valid LIF header.
.IP \-
The file name in the LIF header of the LIF file is valid (only capital letters and digits starting with a letter, max 10 characters long) and does not exist in the directory of the LIF image file.
.IP \-
The file type in the LIF header of the LIF image file is known by the 
.I
LIFUTILS.
.IP \-
There is at least one free entry in the directory area.
.IP \-
There is a sufficient number of contiguous blocks in the file area available to store the file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-l
Relax file name checking, allow underscores in filenames.
.TP 
.I \-p
Write file to a floppy disk with a LIF file system. Note: this option is only supported on LINUX. Specify the floppy device instead of the lif-image-filename. See the LIFUTILS tutorial for details.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image file and 
.I test1.p41
is a HP41 LIF program file, then 
.PP
.B lifutils lifput disk1.dat test1.p41
.PP
will copy the  HP41 LIF program file 
.I test1.p41 into the LIF image file 
.I disk1.dat.
.PP
.SH REFERENCES
The LIF disk directory format is documented in the
.I HP\-IL Interface Owners Manual for the HP\-71 (Hewlett\-Packard)
with further details (particularly HP41 and HP75 file types) in the 
.I HP\-41 Synthetic Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH BUGS
Not all file types have been tested.
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifput
was written by Joachim Siebold, bug400@gmx.de using code from Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed under the GNU Public License version 2.0
