.TH lifrename 1 04-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifrename \- renames a file on a LIF image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils lifrename 
[\-l]
[\-p]
.I LIFIMAGE OLDFILENAME NEWFILENAME
.PP
.B lifutils lifrename \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifrename
renames single file, specified by 
.I OLDFILENAME
to
.I NEWFILENAME.
on the LIF image file
.I LIFIMAGE.
.I OLDFILENAME 
and
.I NEWFILENAME
are case\-sensitive. 
.I NEWFILENAME
must be given in upper case.
.PP
.B
Note:
.I OLDFILENAME
has not to comply with the 
.I
LIFUTILS
file name conventions. Thus this command may be used to rename files that can not processed with the 
.I
LIFUTILS
otherwise.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-l
Relax file name checking, allow underscores in new file name.
.TP
.I \-p
Rename a file on a floppy disk with a LIF file system. Note: this option is only supported on LINUX. Specify the floppy device instead of the lif-image-filename. See the LIFUTILS tutorial for details.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image file containing a file called 
.I TEST1
then 
.PP
.B lifutils lifrename disk1.dat TEST1 TEST2
.PP
will rename the file 
.I TEST1 
on the LIF image file 
.I disk1.dat 
to 
.I TEST2.
.SH REFERENCES
The LIF disk directory format is documented in the
.I HP\-IL Interface Owners Manual for the HP\-71 (Hewlett\-Packard)
with further details (particularly HP-41 and HP-75 file types) in the 
.I HP\-41 Synthetic Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifrename
was written by Joachim Siebold <bug400@gmx.de> using code from  by Tony Duell, 
ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed under the GNU Public License 
version 2.0
