.TH lifstat 1 13-April-2018 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
lifstat \- A program to display statistics for a LIF image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifstat 
.I <LIF image file>
.PP 
.B lifstat
.I <LIF image file> <block_number>
.PP
.B lifstat
.I <LIF image file> <cylinder> <head> <sector>
.PP
.B lifstat \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lifstat
is a program to display the block usage of a LIF  image file. 
If 
.B lifstat
is run with no arguments other than the name of the LIF image file, 
then 2 lines are printed to standard 
output giving the starting and ending blocks of the directory and the 
user file data. The blocks are specified both by their block number and by
their cylinder/head/sector address.
.PP
If 
.B lifstat
is run with one additional argument, then that argument is taken as a 
logical block number. A single line is written to standard output giving 
that block number, the equivalent cylinder/head/sector address and the 
file name of the file that contains that block. 
.PP
If
.B lifstat
is run with 3 additional arguments, then these are taken to be the 
cylinder, head and sector numbers (in that order) of a block on the disk. 
The program then behaves as if one argument was given.
.PP
If the block number is part of the volume label or directory, or if it is 
not currently in use, then the 'file name' is reported as 
.I Volume Label, System 3000 block, directory 
or
.I unused
as appropriate.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving program usage to standard error and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I disk.img
is a LIF image file, then
.PP
.B lifstat  disk.img
.PP
will write a message to standard output giving the start and end blocks of
the directory and user data. Similarly
.PP
.B lifstat  disk.img 37
.PP
will output the file name of the file containing block 37
.SH REFERENCES
The format of a LIF disk directory is given in the
.I HP\-IL Interface Owners Manual for the HP\-71 (Hewlett Packard)
.SH AUTHOR
.B lifstat
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
