.TH regs41 1 06-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
regs41 \- display a HP41 raw file as 'registers'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils regs41 
[\-r]
.I INPUTFILE
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils regs41 
[\-r]
<
.I Input file
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils regs41 \-?
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The memory of an HP41 calculator is divided into 14 nybble (7 byte)
registers. Many HP41 mass\-storage files use an 8 byte record to store
each register, with the nybbles in a scrambled order
.PP
.B regs41
undoes this scrambling and displays the 7 bytes of each register in 
hexadecimal, one register to each line of output. It is primarily 
designed as a tool for analysing unknown HP41 files, which may be either LIF
or raw files. The HP41 data is read from standard input or
.I INPUTFILE,
and the hexadecimal dump of the registers is written to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH REFERENCES
The
.I sdata
manpage gives references to the format of the sdata file, which is the
most common HP41 file made up of registers. The nybble scrambling is the same
for all such files.
.I Extend Your HP41 (W. A. C. Mier\-Jedrzejowicz)
contains a considerable amount of information as to how the HP41 packs 
data into registers
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image containing some unknown type of HP41 data file called
.I ST41
then
.PP
.B lifget \-r disk1.dat ST41 | lifutils regs41
.PP 
will display the data in that file as HP41 registers and will hopefully 
assist in understanding the format of the file
.SH AUTHOR
.B regs41
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
