.TH rom41cat 1 14-April-2018 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
rom41cat \- a filter to display the function names in an HP41 ROM image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rom41cat
[\-x][\-a]
.B <
.I rom_file
.B > 
.I output_file
.PP
.B rom41cat \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rom41cat
reads the Function Address Table (FAT) at the start of an unscrambled 
HP41 ROM image and displays the names of the functions (both Mcode and 
user language (Focal)) contained in that ROM.
.PP
If a ROM consists of multiple 4K ROM files they must be concatenated before
feeding them into
.B rom41cat
The maximum size of concatenated ROM files is 16K. See the example below.
.PP
If the 
.B \-x
option is not given then the XROM numbers, entry address of the function, 
language and name are displayed on standard output. 
.PP
If the 
.B \-x
option is given, then the XROM numbers and function name are displayed on 
standard output in a format that can be stored in a file and read into 
.B comp41
as an xrom definition file. Then 
.B comp41
can give the correct names to functions in this rom. In this case, the 
names of user language functions are displayed in the form
.I XROM'name'
.PP
Use 
.B er41rom
to unscramble Eramco rom image files before using
.B rom41cat
to display the function names contained therein.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-x
Produce a
.B comp41
xrom definition file
.TP
.I \-a
Decompile the following non ASCII HP-41 FOCAL characters as Unicode characters: text append (hex 0x251c),
greek small mu (hex 0x03bc), measured angle (hex 0x2221), not equal to (hex 0x2260), greek capital 
sigma (hex 0x03A3).  In a xrom file function names containing these FOCAL characters are output as two 
text strings. The first string contains these characters as escaped hex codes, the second as Unicode characters. 
Note: xrom files created with this option are compatible with
.B comp41
, 
.B decomp41
, 
.B keys41
but not with other software wich support xrom files.
.TP 
.I \-?
Print a message giving program usage to standard error.
.SH REFERENCES
The format of the FAT and names for Mcode functions is given in 
.I HP\-41 Mcode for Beginners (Ken Emery)
The format of names for user language functions does not appear to be 
documented and was discovered by experiment.
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I myrom.rom
is an Eramco rom image file then
.PP
.B er41rom < myrom.rom | rom41cat
.PP
will display the function names, entry points and language to standard 
output, while
.PP
.B er41rom < myrom.rom | rom41cat -x > myrom.xrom
.PP
will produce an xrom definition file for
.B comp41
containing the function names in 
.I myrom.rom
.PP
To create a xrom file for the Advantage Pac which consists of 3 ROM image files:
.PP
.B cat AdvL1-1B.rom AdvU1-1B.rom AdvU2-1B.rom | rom41cat -x -a > advantage.xrom (Unix, macOS)
.PP
or
.PP
.B copy /b AdvL1-1B.rom+AdvU1-1B.rom+AdvU2-1B.rom | rom41cat -x -a > advantage.xrom (Windows)
.SH BUGS
Some commonly used HP41 characters have no ASCII equivalents and are 
therefore displayed as \\xnn hex escape sequences. Spaces in function 
names are replaced by underscores since 
.B comp41
can't handle spaces in function names in xrom definition files.  
The 'geese' are displayed as the corresponding punctuation characters.
.SH AUTHOR
.B rom41cat
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
