.TH rom41er 1 06-November-2024 "LIF Utilitites" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
rom41er \- convert an unscrambled HP-41 rom file to a LIF file that can be used by the Eramco MLDL-OS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils rom41er
.I LIFFILENAME
.I INPUTFILE
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils rom41er
.I LIFFILENAME
<
.I Input file
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils rom41er \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Eramco MLDL-OS ROM set can load HP41 ROM images from disk, and the
file format used has become a de facto standard for such images. It stores 4
10 bit HP41 words in 5 bytes of the file. A 4K ROM dump is thus stored in
a 5120 byte file.  Input is read either from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE.

.PP
.B rom41er
is a program which generates a  LIF file of type X-M41 (E070).
The program reads the rom data from standard input or the file specified by the parameter 
.I INPUTFILE 
and writes the LIF file header and the rom data in scrambled Eramco MLDL-OS format
to standard output. Note: This program adjusts an incorrect ROM checksum.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I HPILDv1B.ROM 
is the rom file of the HP-IL development module then
.PP
.B cat HPILDv1B.ROM | lifutils rom41er HPILDEV | lifutils lifput lifimage.dat
.PP 
will put the scrambled rom file with the name
.I HPILDEV
into the LIF image file
.I lifimage.dat
.SH AUTHOR
.B rom41er
was written by Joachim Siebold, bug400@gmx.de using code from Tony Duell, 
ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed under the GNU Public License 
version 2.0.
