.TH sdata 1 06-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
sdata \- interpret raw HP sdata files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils sdata
[\-n] [\-h] [\-b] [\-f] [\-l][\-r]
.I INPUTFILE
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils sdata
[\-n] [\-h] [\-b] [\-f] [\-l][\-r]
<
.I Input file
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils sdata \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sdata
displays the contents of a LIF or raw HP sdata file (also known as
an HP41C data file) in a human\-readable format. An sdata file consists of
a sequence of 8\-byte records each of which represents an HP41 storage
register containing either a real number or a 6\-character text string.
The sdata file is either read from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE
and the output written to standard output. 
.PP
By default, 
.B sdata
displays numbers with a 10 digit mantissa and strings as a sequence of 
characters surrounded by double quotes. See
.I OPTIONS
below for other output formats. Characters in text strings that are printable
ASCII characters are output as such, non\-printable characters are output as
\\nnn octal escape sequences.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-n
Print the register number at the start of each output line.
.TP
.I \-h 
Print the register contents as 8 2\-digit hexadecimal numbers without 
attempting to interpret them
.TP
.I \-b
Print alpha strings as the sequence of 
.I BLDSPEC
(an HP41 printer command) values needed to create them.
.TP
.I \-f
If appropriate, display alpha strings as the settings of the first 44 
HP41 flags. The string is assumed to have been returned by the
.I RCLFLAG
command (an extended functions command).
.TP
.I \-l
Display 12 digits in the mantissa, not 10, as used on the HP71B.
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH REFERENCES
The sdata file format is documented in sections 11.2.4.2 and 11.2.7 of 
the 
.I HP71 Software Internal Design Specifications Volume 1 (Hewlett-Packard).
More information can be found in the routines
.I RED41C (0x13F28) 
and
.I N\-STR (0x14BFC)
in the
.I HP71 Software Internal Design Specifications Volume 3 (Hewlett-Packard).
(Addresses given are for the 1BBBB version of the ROM).
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image containing an sdata file called DATA1 then
.PP
.B lifutils lifget \-h disk1.dat DATA1 | lifutils sdata \-n 
.PP
will produce a register\-numbered listing of the data in that file to 
standard output
.SH BUGS
The 
.I \-f
flags function has not been fully tested. This program may not display
non\-normalised numbers correctly. Some commonly\-used HP41C characters are
non\-printable in ASCII, and thus the display of normal HP41C alpha strings
may look messy
.SH AUTHOR
.B sdata
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
