.TH sdatabar 1 06-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
sdatabar \- convert a raw SDATA file into an intermediate barcode file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils sdatabar
[\-e] [\-r]
.I INPUTFILE
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils sdatabar
[\-e] [\-r]
<
.I Input file
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils sdatabar -?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sdatabar
is a program that reads a raw SDATA file from standard input or the file specified by the command line paramter
.I INPUTFILE
and writes the corresponding intermediate barcode file to standard output. 
Records in the SDATA file containing numeric data are turned into type 6 barcode rows, while 
those containing alpha data are turned into type 7 rows. Other SDATA 
records cannot be represented by HP41 barcode, and are skipped, giving a 
suitable error message.
.PP
The output of 
.B sdatabar
can be piped to a suitable barcode printing program such as 
.B barps
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-e
HP82153 barcode wands with the version 1E ROM have a bug which means they 
cannot read numeric data barcode rows containing 10 or more data bytes. 
Unfortunately, some HP41 real numbers require 10 bytes to represent them 
in barcode format. If the 
.I \-e
option is given to sdatabar, the program attempts to reduce the length of 
the barcode by omitting the decimal point and adjusting the exponent to 
compensate. This is not always possible, in which case, a suitable 
message is written to standard error, and the last mantissa digit is 
omitted from the barcode.
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving usage to standard error and exit
.SH REFERENCES
The format of HP41 barcode is given in the book
.I Creating your own HP41 Barcode (Hewlett\-Packard)
.PP
The format of the barcode file written by sdatabar is given in 
.I barcode(5)
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I data1.sda
is a raw sdata file, and 
.I postscript
is a postscript printer
then
.PP
.B lifutils sdatabar < data1.sda | lifutils barps 'Data File 1' | lpr -P postscript
.PP
will print that file on the postscript printer.
.SH BUGS
The HP82153 wand can't accept data other than standard numeric or alpha 
data, so some sdata files cannot be translated correctly. Version 1E 
wands cannot read some numeric data barcode, as described above.
.SH AUTHOR
.B sdatabar
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk, and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
