.TH stat41 1 06-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
stat41 \- display a raw HP41 status file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils stat41
[\-b] [\-f] [\-v][\-r]
.I INPUTFILE
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils stat41
[\-b] [\-f] [\-v][\-r]
<
.I Input file
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B stat41 \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stat41
displays the information in a LIF or raw HP41C status file. This 
file contains the user RPN stack, the alpha register, the status of the 
first 44 flags, the current SIZE and number of the first statistics 
register. The status file is read from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE
and the values are displayed in human-readable form on standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-b
Display strings in stack registers as BLDSPEC values.
.TP
.I \-f
Display strings in stack registers as RCLFLAG settings if appropriate.
.TP
.I \-v
Display user flags verbosely, rather than as a binary number.
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I disk1.dat
is a LIF image file containing an HP41 status file called
.I STAT
then
.PP
.B lifutils lifget \-r disk1.dat STAT | lifutils stat41
.PP
will display the contents of this status file on standard output
.SH AUTHOR
.B stat41
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
