.TH textlif75 1 07-November-2024 "LIF Utilitites" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
textlif75 \- convert an ASCII file to a HP-75 text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils textlif75
[\-n]
.I LIFFILENAME
.I INPUTFILE
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils textlif75
[\-n]
.I LIFFILENAME
<
.I Input file
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils textlif75 \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B textlif75
generates a text file for the HP-75.
The program reads plain text from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE
and writes the LIF file header followed by the converted HP-75 text file to standard output. 
This file type can be used on the HP-75 only. The maximum line length of this file type is 255 characters excluding end of line char(s). 
.B textlif75 
adds a line numbering starting with zero with an increment of one.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-n
Get the linenumbering from the input file. The line numbers must be the first token in each line of the input file. They must be in the range 0-9999 and in consecutive order. Exactly one space seperates the line number from the following text of the line.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH REFERENCES
The HP text file format is documented in page 107 and 111 of the
.I
HP75 Description and Entry Points documentation.
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I demo.txt
is an ASCII text file 
then
.PP
.B cat demo.txt | lifutils textlif75 DEMO | lifutils lifput lifimage.dat
.PP
will put the HP-75 text file with the name
.I DEMO
into the LIF image file
.I lifimage.dat
.SH AUTHOR
.B textlif
was written by Joachim Siebold, bug400@gmx.de using code from Tony Duell, 
ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
