.TH textlif 1 07-November-2024 "LIF Utilitites" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
textlif \- convert an ASCII file to a LIF text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils textlif
[\-s SIZE] [\-l]
.I LIFFILENAME
.I INPUTFILE
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils textlif
[\-s SIZE] [\-l]
.I LIFFILENAME
<
.I Input file
>
.I Output file
.PP
.B lifutils textlif \-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B textlif
generates a LIF file from a text file.
The program reads the text from standard input or the file specified by the command line paramter 
.I INPUTFILE
and writes the LIF file header and the LIF formatted text to
standard output. This file type can be used on the HP-71 (TEXT) or
the HP-41 extended Memory or HEPAX file system (ASCII).
.PP
If the text file is to be used on the HP-41, the 
.I \-s
option is mandatory. The file can be directly copied from a mass storage device to HEPAX memory with the
.I
HREADFL
command. However, it must be preallocated with an appropriate size with the
.I
CRFLAS
command, before being copied to extended memory with the
.I
READFL
command.
.PP
Note: empty (zero length) lines are ignored when transferring from a mass storage device to the HP-41.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-s
This option specifies the file size in registers which shall be allocated 
for the resulting file in the HP-41 extended memory or the HEPAX file system. 
If a value of 0 is specified the number of register is determined from the 
size of the input text file.  According to the HEPAX documentation the 
maximum file size is 577 registers. The minimun and allocated number of registers
is printed to standard error.
.TP
.I \-l
Relax file name checking, allow underscores in LIF filename.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.
.SH REFERENCES
The HP text file format is documented in section 11.2.8.1 of the 
.I
HP71 Software Internal Design Specifications Volume 1 (Hewlett-Packard)
.SH EXAMPLES
If
.I demo.txt
is an ASCII text file 
then
.PP
.B cat demo.txt | lifutils textlif DEMO | lifutils lifput lifimage.dat
.PP
will put the LIF text file with the name
.I DEMO
into the LIF image file
.I lifimage.dat
.SH AUTHOR
.B textlif
was written by Joachim Siebold, bug400@gmx.de using code from Tony Duell, 
ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
