.TH wall41 1 23-December-2000 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
wall41 \- a program to extract information from an HP41 Write All file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wall41
[\-k [
.I key_file
] ] [\-b
.I buff#
[
.I buffer_file
] ] [\-r [
.I register_file
] ] [\-s [
status_file
] ] [\-p
.I program_name
] < 
.I writeall_file
.PP
.B wall41
\-?
.SH DESCRIPTION
An HP41 Write All file is a dump of the entire contents of user memory, 
including user data, user programs, buffers, key assignments and the 
status registers.
.B wall41
reads a Write All file from standard input and extracts one or more of 
these sections from it. The extracted data is written either to standard 
output or to the specified file. In turn this information can be decoded 
by other filters in the LIF Utilities package.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-k [key_file]
Extract the KARs (Key Assignment Registers) in a format suitable for 
decoding with 
.B key41.
If an output file is not given, the data is written to standard output 
and can be piped directly in to
.B key41
.TP 
.I \-b buff# [buffer_file]
Extract the contents of the buffer area with id
.I buff#.
If 
.I buffer_file
is not specified, the data is written to standard output.
.TP
.I \-r [register_file]
Extract the user data registers as an 
.B sdata file.
If no output file is specified, write the data to standard output, 
suitable for piping to the 
.B sdata
program.
.TP 
.I \-s [status_file]
Extract the status information (user stack, alpha register, user flags) 
to the specified file, or, if no file is given, to standard output. The 
program
.B stat41
can be used to decode this information.
.TP
.I \-p program_name
Extract the user programs to files called
.I program_name.001, program_name.002
and so on. The 
.I program_name
must be specified, this option cannot write data to standard output.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving program usage to standard error and exit.
.SH REFERENCES
The format of the HP41 Write All file is undocumented, but as it is simply
a dump of all user memory registers in the logical order, most books on
synthetic programming which contain the format of HP41 user memory are a
good reference on the data contained in a Write All file. Information of
the format of Key Assignment Registers, HP41 user programs, data
registers, etc can be found in the same books. 
.PP 
Two useful references are :
.I Extend Your HP41 (W. A. C. Mier-Jedrzejowicz)
and
.I The HP41 Synthetic Programming Quick Reference Guide (Jeremy Smith)
.SH EXAMPLES
If 
.I all1.w41
is an HP41 write-all file, then
.PP
.B wall41 -k < all1.w41 | key41
.PP
will display the key assignments to standard output. Similarly
.PP
.B wall41 -p program <all1.w41
.PP
will extract user programs to files called
.I program.001, program.002, ...
.SH SEE ALSO
.B wcat41(1), prog41(1), key41(1), sdata(1), stat41(1), regs41(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B wall41
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
