.TH wcat41 1 07-November-2024 "LIF Utilities" "LIF Utilities"
.SH NAME
wcat41 \- list the contents of a raw HP41 Write All file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lifutils wcat41 
[\-r]
.I INPUTFILE
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils wcat41 
[\-r]
<
.I Input file
[>
.I Output file
]
.PP
.B lifutils wcat -?
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wcat41
reads an HP41 Write All file from standard input or the file specified by the command line parameter
.I INPUTFILE.
It 
then writes to standard output the following information : 
.PP 
The SIZE (number of user data registers) and the location of the first
statistical register.
.PP
The number of KARs (Key Assignment Registers) found.
.PP
The ID and size of any buffers.
.PP 
Global labels (and ENDs) of user programs, in a format similar to
.I CAT 1
on the HP41.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-r
Skip an existing LIF header of the input file. This is mandatory, if the input file is a LIF instead of a raw file.
.TP
.I \-?
Print a message giving the program usage to standard error.

.SH REFERENCES
The format of an HP41 Write All file is not well documented. However it 
is simply a dump of all the HP41 user memory (excluding extended memory) 
in the logical order. The data stored in HP41 User Memory is documented 
in most books on synthetic programming, for example the  Synthetic 
Programming Quick Reference Guide by J. Smith.
.SH EXAMPLES
To get a catalogue of a raw HP41 Write All file called 
.I all1.w41 ,
type : 
.B lifutils wcat41 < all1.w41
.SH SEE ALSO
.B wall41(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B wcat41
was written by Tony Duell, ard@p850ug1.demon.co.uk and has been placed 
under the GNU Public License version 2.0
